site/content/community/presentations.md, before:

+++
title = "Presentations"
weight = 620
+++

On this page you can find links to arbitrary material covering Eclipse Hono which has been presented at events, conferences
and meet-ups or are available online.
<!--more-->

## "Eclipse Hono: Command and Control" (Talk at eclipsecon Europe October 2018)

* [Talk description](https://www.eclipsecon.org/europe2018/sessions/command-and-control-using-eclipse-hono-connect-and-control-your-devices) (October 23, 2018)
* Speaker : Karsten Frank (Bosch Software Innovations)
* [Slides](https://www.slideshare.net/KarstenFrank1/eclipse-hono-command-and-control) 

## "Using multi-tenancy in Eclipse Hono" (Blog post April 2018)

* Author : Kai Hudalla (Bosch Software Innovations)
* [Article](https://blog.bosch-si.com/developer/using-multi-tenancy-in-eclipse-hono/)

## "Eclipse Hono: Connecting large numbers of IoT devices" (Blog post January 2018)

* Authors : [Dejan Bosanac](https://twitter.com/dejanb) (Red Hat), Karsten Frank (Bosch Software Innovations), [Paolo Patierno](https://twitter.com/ppatierno) (Red Hat)
* [Article](https://blog.bosch-si.com/developer/eclipse-hono-connecting-large-numbers-of-iot-devices/)

## "Eclipse Hono: Connect. Command. Control." at Virtual IoT Meetup

[Virtual IoT Meetup](https://www.meetup.com/Virtual-IoT/events/242190258/) hosted by Eclipse Foundation (October 11, 2017)

* Speakers : Kai Hudalla (Bosch Software Innovations), [Paolo Patierno](https://twitter.com/ppatierno) (Red Hat)
* [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VEXuz2bFSrE) and [slides](https://www.slideshare.net/paolopat/eclipse-hono-connect-command-control-80697771)

## "Eclipse Hono: Connect. Command. Control." at Eclipse Day Milan 2017

[Eclipse Day Milan 2017](https://eclipsedaymilano.com/) (September 22, 2017)

* Speaker : [Paolo Patierno](https://twitter.com/ppatierno) (Red Hat)
* [Slides](https://www.slideshare.net/paolopat/eclipse-hono-connect-command-control)

Commit message:

Add latest blog post to resources page.
Signed-off-by: Kai Hudalla <kai.hudalla@bosch-si.com>

site/content/community/presentations.md, after:

+++
title = "Resources"
weight = 620
+++

On this page you can find links to arbitrary resources covering Eclipse Hono&trade; which have been presented at events, conferences
and meet-ups or are available online.
<!--more-->

## "X.509 based device authentication in Eclipse Hono" (Blog post February 2019)

* Author: Kai Hudalla (Bosch Software Innovations)
* [Article](https://blog.bosch-si.com/developer/x-509-based-device-authentication-in-eclipse-hono/)

## "Eclipse Hono: Command and Control" (Talk at eclipsecon Europe October 2018)

* [Talk description](https://www.eclipsecon.org/europe2018/sessions/command-and-control-using-eclipse-hono-connect-and-control-your-devices) (October 23, 2018)
* Speaker : Karsten Frank (Bosch Software Innovations)
* [Slides](https://www.slideshare.net/KarstenFrank1/eclipse-hono-command-and-control) 

## "Using multi-tenancy in Eclipse Hono" (Blog post April 2018)

* Author : Kai Hudalla (Bosch Software Innovations)
* [Article](https://blog.bosch-si.com/developer/using-multi-tenancy-in-eclipse-hono/)

## "Eclipse Hono: Connecting large numbers of IoT devices" (Blog post January 2018)

* Authors : [Dejan Bosanac](https://twitter.com/dejanb) (Red Hat), Karsten Frank (Bosch Software Innovations), [Paolo Patierno](https://twitter.com/ppatierno) (Red Hat)
* [Article](https://blog.bosch-si.com/developer/eclipse-hono-connecting-large-numbers-of-iot-devices/)

## "Eclipse Hono: Connect. Command. Control." at Virtual IoT Meetup

[Virtual IoT Meetup](https://www.meetup.com/Virtual-IoT/events/242190258/) hosted by Eclipse Foundation (October 11, 2017)

* Speakers : Kai Hudalla (Bosch Software Innovations), [Paolo Patierno](https://twitter.com/ppatierno) (Red Hat)
* [Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VEXuz2bFSrE) and [slides](https://www.slideshare.net/paolopat/eclipse-hono-connect-command-control-80697771)

## "Eclipse Hono: Connect. Command. Control." at Eclipse Day Milan 2017

[Eclipse Day Milan 2017](https://eclipsedaymilano.com/) (September 22, 2017)

* Speaker : [Paolo Patierno](https://twitter.com/ppatierno) (Red Hat)
* [Slides](https://www.slideshare.net/paolopat/eclipse-hono-connect-command-control)
